---
layout: post
current: post
cover: assets/images/prelude_foundation.jpg
title: 2020 Top Books
categories: [ Miscellaneous ]
---

Today is Daylights Savings day! Why not use your extra hour as reading time?

These are my top 3 favorite books of this year. I didn't read as much as I liked, but these were fun. 

# Foundation - Prelude to Foundation
A classic book that was more fun than I expected. Full of sci-fi action and interesting things that you never wondered; Isaac Asimov was truly an awesome writer. I haven't finished the next books yet because I had to read books for school Instead, but I'm sure they'll be great.

## Brave New World
I've always loved dystopians because they made me think about society and wonder about human nature. While this novel is uncommon in my school and recommended for Seniors only, I found it to be a very interesting book-the ideas of innocence and ignorance both play a large part in the story, and there are many sudden changes in the plot which will keep you hooked. 

> I bunch of older kids were looking weirdly at me as I was reading this at school... I guess they couldn't fathom a freshman who actually liked reading

## The Handmaid's Tale
Probably one of the most interesting dystopians I've read because its so connected to modern society. Novels like 1984 and Brave New World are seemingly more drastic than The Handmaid's Tale, yet there is still something very interesting about the fact that the entire plot is born out of the idea that modern government is overun. 

I know that this is a boring post, but I really want to post something on this website-messing around with the terminal deleting the demo posts is really fun and figuring out how to use all of the features of this layout it cool. I'll have another post soon!